DataLoader : 
	This is a ETL tool provided by salesforce to perform insert ,update,upsert,delete
	export the  data from salesforce to external system or external system to 	salesforce

1.How to download the dataloader ?
	
	Setup
	 |-----Adminster
		 |
		 |------DataManagement
			    |
			    |------DataLoader
					|	
					|-------Download  dataloader for windows

2.How to install dataloader ?
		

	1.select the dataloder.exe file 

	2.Click on run
	
	3.Agree the terms

	4.Give next -->next--Next-->Finish


3.How to login to dataloader?

ANS:  There are two ways to login to dataloader 

	1.Using OAuth

	2.Using password 


 1. Using OAuth : 
	
	a.Choose the environment type as (Production ,sandbox ,developer trail)

	b. Provide salesforce credential of user who want to login to dataloader

	c. Verification code will be sent to email 

	d. Enter the verification code and click on Allow Access


2. Using Password 

	a. Generate security token

	   UserName
		|
		|---Mysettings
			|
			|------Personal
				  |
				  |------Reset My security Token
						 	|-------Reset SecurityToken

	Note : Security token will be sent to registred email id of user

	b.Open the dataloader and choose password format

	c. UserName : salesforce username

	   password : salesforcepassword+securityToken


Q: Which standard objects are supported by dataloder ?

ANS: Lead ,Account,Contact,Opportunity,PriceBook,Product,Event,Task,user


Q:: Which custom objects are supported ?

ANS: All the custom objects 

Q:: How many records are supported by dataloader ?

ANS:5 MILLION records 

Q:: How to export the data ?

	1. Select Export options

	2. Choose the object

	3. Specify the location and extraction filename

	4. Select the fields 

	5. Specify filter condition

	6. Click on Finish

Q:: What is the difference between export and export all ?

	1. When we export the data only the data in the object is exported 

	2. When we use export all  ,all the data in the object including the data in the 
	   recylebin is exported   

Q: How to insert the data ?

	1. Create source data in the CSV format 

	2. Select insert

	3. Choose the object 

	4. Choose the source file 

	5. Make a field mapping between csv field and Object fields 

	6. Choose the destination folder 

	7. Click on finish

	Note : All the Validations rules and required fields are respected while 
		we insert the data

	Note : If there are any lookup field or master-detail field provide 
		18 character record id  in the csv

Q:: How to perform upsert ?

	1. To perform the upsert opreation we need external id  or salesforce record id

	2. External id field can be any one of the text ,email,number field 

	3. If any external id value is already existing  update the data 

	4. If external id field is not existing  create the record

	5. If duplicate external id is existing in the CSV it throws error on all the 	   duplicates 

 Steps to Upsert

	1. Create source data in the CSV format 

	2. Select Upsert

	3. Choose the object 

	4. Choose the source file 
	
	5. Choose the external Id field 

	6. Make a field mapping between csv field and Object fields 

	7. Choose the destination folder 

	8 Click on finish

	Note : All the Validations rules and required fields are respected while 
		we insert the data

Q:: How to perform Update and delete 
	
ANS:  We have to provide salesforce record id to perfom update or delete


Q:: How to insert null values in the field for which we have not provided values 

ANS : 	DataLoader
	   |
	   |----Settings
		   |--------Insert Null values

Q:: What is the defualt size of dataloader ?

ANS: 
	Defualt Size : 200 records
     	Minimum size : 1
     	Maximum Size : 2000

Q::DataLoader is syncronous or Asychronous?

ANS :Asyncronous

Q:: DataLoader is atomic or non -atomic

ANS: Non-Atomic


Q::How to use european Date format

ANS: Enable use european date format then it accepts date in the format of dd/mm/yyyy

Q:: Which time zone is applied on dataloader

ANS: By defualt user who logined to the dataloder his time zone is applied 
 Note :In case if we leave this field blank system time zone is taken





				
